# C-Q Analysis
This repository includes the R code used to assess concentration-discharge (c-Q) relationships as presented in Pohle, I., Baggaley, N., Palarea-Albaladejo, J., Stutter, M., Glendell, M. (2021). A framework for assessing concentration-discharge catchment behavior from low-frequency water quality data. Water Resources Research, 57, e2021WR029692. https://doi.org/10.1029/2021WR029692

The R Code contains functions to carry out a classification of c-Q relationships into 9 classes considering export regime (dilution, constancy, enrichment) and long-term average hysteresis pattern (clockwise, no hysteresis, anticlockwise) applicable to low-frequency water quality data. To be able to assess hysteresis patterns of low-frequency water quality data, daily discharge time series are discretized into rising and falling hydrograph limbs. Clockwise hysteresis is then defined in case of higher concentration at the rising limb of the hydrograph, anticlockwise hysteresis case of higher concentrations at the falling limb of the hydrograph. Insignificant differences between rising and falling limb are considered as no hysteresis. Export regimes are considered taking into account enrichment (concentration increases with discharge), constancy (no significant relationship between concentration and discharge magnitudes) and dilution (concentration decreases with discharge) derived from modelled concentrations. Power-law c-Q models with separate parametrization for low and high discharge (using an optimum segmentation quantile) and for rising and falling hydrograph limb are used, enabling a better representation of c-Q dynamics. 
The R code also contains a function to separate chemostatic and chemodynamic behaviour following the definition according to the coefficient of variation of concentration and discharge according to Musolff, A., Fleckenstein, J. H., Rao, P. S., & Jawitz, J. W. (2017). Emergent archetype patterns of coupled hydrologic and biogeochemical responses in catchments. Geophysical Research Letters, 44(9), 4143–4151. https://doi.org/10.1002/2017GL072630

The code has also been applied in Hashemi, F., Pohle, I., Pullens, J.W.M., Tornbjerg, H., Kyllmar, K., Marttila, H., Lepistö, A., Kløve, B., Futter, M., Kronvang, B. (2020). Conceptual Mini-Catchment Typologies for Testing Dominant Controls of Nutrient Dynamics in Three Nordic Countries. Water 2020, 12, 1776. https://doi.org/10.3390/w12061776 

The repository contains three files: 

1. Functions_cQ_Analysis:   R code of functions to carry out the c-Q analysis: .R
2. Apply_Functions_cQ_Analysis.R:   A script showing how these functions can be applied to example data
3. example_data.txt:  A synthetic example data set of low-frequency concentration and discharge data
